Extended Tour Documentation (#614)
open-component-model/ocm: examples/lib/tour/01-getting-started/README.md

This [tour](example.go) illustrates the basic usage of the API to
access component versions in an OCM repository.

## Running the example

> You can just call the main program with some config file argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call the main program with a config file argument
```

Author: done

> with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where the config file has the following content:
```

Author: done

```yaml
component: github.com/mandelsoft/examples/cred1
repository: ghcr.io/mandelsoft/ocm
version: 0.1.0
```

## Walkthrough

The basic entry point for using the OCM library is always
an [OCM Context object](../../contexts.md). It bundles all
configuration settings and type registrations, like
access methods, repository types, etc, and
configuration settings, like credentials,
which should be used when working with the OCM
ecosystem.

> Therefore, the first step is always to get access to such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is always to get access to such
```

Author: *Therefore* relates to the paragraph before, therefore I think it should be ok.

a context object. Our example uses the default context
provided by the library, which covers the complete
type registration contained in the executable.

> It can be accessed by a function of the ocm package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be accessed by a function of the `ocm` package.
```

Author: done

```go
	ctx := ocm.DefaultContext()
```

The context acts as the central entry
point to get access to OCM elements.
First, we get a repository, to look for
component versions. We use the OCM

> repository providing the standard OCM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repository hosted on `ghcr.io` and which is providing
```

Author: done

> components hosted on `ghcr.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the standard OCM components.
```

Author: done

For every storage technology used to store
OCM components, there is a serializable
descriptor object, the *repository specification*.
It describes the information required to access
the repository and can be used to store the serialized
form as part of other resources, for example
Kubernetes resources or configuration settings.
The available repository implementations can be found
under `.../pkg/contexts/ocm/repositories`.

```go
	spec := ocireg.NewRepositorySpec("ghcr.io/open-component-model/ocm")
```

The context can now be used to map the descriptor
into a repository object, which then provides access
to the OCM elements stored in this repository.

```go
	repo, err := ctx.RepositoryForSpec(spec)
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot setup repository")
	}
```

> Many objects must be closed, if they should not be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To release potentially allocated temporary resources,
```

> anymore, to release potentially allocated temporary resources.

Author: done

This is typically done by a `defer` statement placed after a
successful object retrieval.

```go
	defer repo.Close()
```

Now we look for the versions of the component
available in this repository.

```go
	versions, err := c.ListVersions()
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot query version names")
	}
```

> OCM version names must follow the semver rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OCM version names must follow the SemVer rules.
```

Author: done

Therefore, we can simply order the versions and print them.

```go
	err = semverutils.SortVersions(versions)
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot sort versions")
	}
	fmt.Printf("versions for component ocm.software/ocmcli: %s\n", strings.Join(versions, ", "))
```

> Now, we have a look at the latest version, it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we have a look at the latest version. It is
```

Author: done

		fmt.Printf("      resource type:  %s\n", r.Meta().GetType())
		acc, err := r.Access()
		if err != nil {
			fmt.Printf("      access:         error: %s\n", err)
		} else {
			fmt.Printf("      access:         %s\n", acc.Describe(ctx))
		}
	}
```

This results in the following output (the shown version might
differ, because the code always describes the latest version):

```
resources of the latest version:
  version:  0.6.0
  provider: ocm.software
   1: name:           ocmcli
      extra identity: "architecture"="amd64","os"="linux"
      resource type:  executable
      access:         Local blob sha256:6672528b57fd77cefa4c5a3395431b6a5aa14dc3ddad3ffe52343a7a518c2cd3[]
   2: name:           ocmcli
      extra identity: "architecture"="arm64","os"="linux"
      resource type:  executable
      access:         Local blob sha256:9088cb8bbef1593b905d6bd3af6652165ff82cebd0d86540a7be9637324d036b[]
   3: name:           ocmcli-image
      extra identity: 
      resource type:  ociImage
      access:         OCI artifact ghcr.io/open-component-model/ocm/ocm.software/ocmcli/ocmcli-image:0.6.0
```

Resources have some metadata, like the resource identity and a resource type.

> And they describe how the content of the resource (as blob) can be accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They describe how the content of the resource (as blob) can be accessed.
```

Author: *And* relates to the sentence before

This is done by an *access specification*, again a serializable descriptor,
like the respository specification.

> The component version contains the executables for the OCM CLI

Reviewer: sollte man hier nicht eventuell das "component version" als resource in Hochticks stellen oder noch so etwas wie "die Resource" oder "der Typ" oder was component version hier auch immer ist?

Author: There are more errors, here, fo example, the identity is not stored as label. I've reformulated the paragraph.

for various platforms. The next step is to
get the executable for the actual environment.
The identity of a resource described by a component version

> consists of a set of properties. The property name must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consists of a set of properties. The property `name` is mandatory.
```

Author: done

> always be given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

A convention is to use dedicated labels to indicate the operating system
and the architecture for executables.

```go
	id := metav1.NewIdentity("ocmcli",
		extraid.ExecutableOperatingSystem, runtime.GOOS,
		extraid.ExecutableArchitecture, runtime.GOARCH,
	)

	res, err := cv.GetResource(id)
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "resource %s", id)
	}
```

> Now we want to retrieve the executable. There are two basic ways

Author: reformulated

to do this.

First, there is the direct way to gain access to the blob by using
the basic model operations to get a reader for the resource blob.
Therefore, in a first step we get the access method for the resource

```go
		var m ocm.AccessMethod
		m, err = res.AccessMethod()
		if err != nil {
			return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot get access method")
		}
		defer m.Close()
```

The method needs to be closed, because the method
object may cache the technical blob representation

> generated accessing the underlying access technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated to access the underlying access technology.
```

Author: by accessing

```go
		fmt.Printf("  found blob with mime type %s\n", m.MimeType())
		reader, err = m.Reader()
```

Because this sequence is a common operation, there is a
utility function handling this sequence. A shorter way to get
a resource reader is as follows:

```go
		reader, err = utils.GetResourceReader(res)
```

Before we download the content we check the error and prepare
closing the reader, again

```go
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot get resource reader")
	}
	defer reader.Close()
```

Now, we just read the content and copy it to the intended 
output file.

```go
	file, err := os.OpenFile("/tmp/ocmcli", os.O_CREATE|os.O_WRONLY|os.O_TRUNC, 0766)
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "cannot open output file")
	}
	defer file.Close()

	n, err := io.Copy(file, reader)
	if err != nil {
		return errors.Wrapf(err, "write executable")
	}
	fmt.Printf("%d bytes written\n", n)
```

Another way to download a resource is to use registered downloaders.
`download.DownloadResource` is used to download resources with specific handlers for the
selected resource and mime type combinations.
The executable downloader is registered by default and automatically

> sets the X flag.

Author: done
